Project Title: Know the art
Authors: Oskar Telgmaa (Group 4), Anna Ulst (Group 3)

BUSINESS UNDERSTANDING:
Identifying your business goals
  Background: 
    None of us wants to be the fool of the group. People don't want to stand out as the one that doesn't know certain facts about the subjects that others might find elementary knowledge.
  For us that is the arts. It's something interesting and beautiful to look at, but when it comes to discussing authors or art theory, we do seem to get lost. Most times, the most difficult part
  of art is recognizing the artist by just looking at the painting. Many concider this to be quite easy. But there are many people who need some help to differate Monet from Manet and impressionism from expressionism.
  Business goals: 
    We are trying to create a helpful tool, that identifies the painter and the art movement of the painting, it has been given.
  Business success criteria:
    As we have the data of 50 most influencial painters of all time the objective is to identify the paintings of these 50 painters only. A bigger data set can be left for later, done outside 
    of the school project.
Assessing your situation
  Inventory of resources :
    Resources for this project are two students, who take 'Introduction to Data Mining' and the knowledge they have obtained from that course.
    We use the data from the kaggle website containing the artwork of the 50 best painters of all time. 
  Requirements, assumptions, and constraints
Risks and contingencies
  Terminology
  Costs and benefits :
    We don't have costs for this project, except our time. We won't benefit from this project financially either, but we get to practice our skills in data mining.
Defining your data-mining goals
  Data-mining goals
  Data-mining success criteria

DATA UNDERSTANDING:
Gathering data
  Outline data requirements
  Verify data availability:
    The data is available on the kaggle website and free to download. It was originally from the website artchallenge.ru, where it's possible to guess the artist by the painting.
    It should be possible to get 100% in that website when using our created tool. 
  Define selection criteria
Describing data:
   The data contains over 8000 paintings from 50 artists. It has data for each artist (main genre, lifetime, nationality etc), contains full size pictures and also resized pictures.
Exploring data
Verifying data quality

PLANNING THE PROJECT:
Task List:
 1) Make data usable for our purpose (read in pictures as pixels)
 2) Write script which can read in the data in more effective way, so we can use it further 
 3) Train models on training data just to try to predict the art movement
 4) Train models on training data just to try to predict (or confirm) one author
 5) Test models on larger data (more authors and movements)
Methods and tools we plan to use:
  1) Jupyter Notebook will be our main rescourse in this particular project
  2) We use GitHub to make coding together more simpler
  3) As a comment for the second task, we'll choose random patches from the painting, so we don't have to use all the data and not overwhelm the program
  4) And we try to move gradually from predicting just the art movement to predicting actual authors

